docs/01-session-1-setup.md, before:

# Session 1: Setup & Foundation

This session covers account creation, tool installation, and initial configuration. By the end, you will have a complete development environment ready for the workflow in Session 2.

## What You Will Accomplish

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Session 1 Outcomes                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│  Accounts Created:          Tools Installed:                │
│  ─────────────────          ─────────────────               │
│  • GitHub                   • Cursor                        │
│  • Atlassian (Jira)         • Git                           │
│  • Claude Pro               • Python 3.11+                  │
│                             • uv                            │
│                             • spec-kit                      │
│                                                             │
│  Integrations Configured:   Assets Ready:                   │
│  ───────────────────────    ─────────────                   │
│  • Claude Code in Cursor    • Forked tutorial repo          │
│  • GitHub ↔ Jira            • Jira project (ECOM)           │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 1. Create Accounts

### 1.1 Create a GitHub Account

GitHub is where your code lives. It is the industry standard for version control and collaboration.

**Steps:**

1. Open your browser and go to [github.com](https://github.com)
2. Click **Sign up**
3. Enter your email address
4. Create a password
5. Choose a username (this will be visible publicly, so choose something professional)
6. Complete the verification puzzle
7. Click **Create account**
8. Verify your email by clicking the link GitHub sends you

**Checkpoint:** You should be able to log into github.com and see your dashboard.

---

### 1.2 Create an Atlassian (Jira) Account

Jira is the most widely used project management tool in software development. It tracks tasks, bugs, and features.

**Steps:**

1. Go to [atlassian.com](https://www.atlassian.com)
2. Click **Get it free** or **Sign up**
3. Enter your email address and click **Sign up**
4. Check your email for a verification link and click it
5. Create a password
6. When asked about your role, select an appropriate option (Student or Developer)
7. When asked what you want to use, select **Jira Software**
8. Name your site (this becomes your workspace URL, e.g., `yourname.atlassian.net`)
9. Complete the onboarding steps

**Checkpoint:** You should be able to access your Jira workspace at `yourname.atlassian.net`.

---

### 1.3 Subscribe to Claude Pro

Claude Pro gives you access to Claude Code, the AI assistant you will use throughout this tutorial.

**Steps:**

1. Go to [claude.ai](https://claude.ai)
2. Click **Sign up** if you don't have an account, or **Log in**
3. Create an account using your email or Google account
4. Once logged in, click on your profile or settings
5. Select **Upgrade to Pro** or **Subscribe to Pro**
6. Enter your payment information ($20/month)
7. Complete the subscription

**Note:** If you encounter usage limits during the tutorial, you can upgrade to Claude Max ($100/month) for higher limits. Most students find Pro sufficient.

**Checkpoint:** When you log into claude.ai, you should see a Pro badge or indicator showing your subscription is active.

---

## 2. Install Software

### 2.1 Install Cursor

Cursor is an AI-powered code editor based on VS Code. It will feel familiar if you have used VS Code before.

**Steps for macOS:**

1. Go to [cursor.com](https://cursor.com)
2. Click **Download for macOS**
3. Open the downloaded `.dmg` file
4. Drag the Cursor icon to your Applications folder
5. Open Cursor from Applications
6. If prompted about opening an app from the internet, click **Open**
7. Complete the initial setup wizard

**Steps for Windows:**

1. Go to [cursor.com](https://cursor.com)
2. Click **Download for Windows**
3. Run the downloaded `.exe` installer
4. Follow the installation wizard (accept defaults)
5. Launch Cursor when installation completes
6. Complete the initial setup wizard

**Checkpoint:** You should be able to open Cursor and see the welcome screen or an empty editor.

---

### 2.2 Install Git

Git is the version control system that tracks changes to your code.

**Check if Git is already installed:**

Open Cursor's terminal (press `` Ctrl+` ``) and type:

```bash
git --version
```

If you see a version number (e.g., `git version 2.39.0`), Git is installed. Skip to the next section.

**Install Git on macOS:**

1. Open Cursor's terminal (`` Ctrl+` ``)
2. Type `git --version`
3. If Git is not installed, macOS will prompt you to install Command Line Tools
4. Click **Install** on the prompt
5. Wait for installation to complete
6. Verify by running `git --version` again

**Alternative for macOS (if the above doesn't work):**

1. Go to [git-scm.com/download/mac](https://git-scm.com/download/mac)
2. Download the installer
3. Run the installer and follow the prompts

**Install Git on Windows:**

1. Go to [git-scm.com/download/win](https://git-scm.com/download/win)
2. Download the installer (64-bit recommended)
3. Run the installer
4. **Important settings during installation:**
   - Select "Use Git from Git Bash and also from 3rd-party software"
   - Select "Use the OpenSSL library"
   - Select "Checkout Windows-style, commit Unix-style line endings"
   - Accept other defaults
5. Complete installation
6. Restart Cursor
7. Open terminal and verify: `git --version`

**Configure Git (both platforms):**

After installing, configure your identity:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
```

Use the same email you used for GitHub.

**Checkpoint:** Running `git --version` in Cursor's terminal shows a version number, and `git config --list` shows your name and email.

---

### 2.3 Install Python 3.11+

Python is required for spec-kit and the Streamlit dashboard you will build.

**Check your current Python version:**

```bash
python --version
```

or

```bash
python3 --version
```

If you see Python 3.11 or higher (e.g., `Python 3.11.5`), skip to the next section.

**Install Python on macOS:**

1. Go to [python.org/downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
2. Click **Download Python 3.12.x** (or the latest 3.11+)
3. Open the downloaded `.pkg` file
4. Follow the installation wizard
5. **Important:** On the final screen, click **Install Certificates** if that option appears
6. Close and reopen Cursor's terminal
7. Verify: `python3 --version`

**Install Python on Windows:**

1. Go to [python.org/downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
2. Click **Download Python 3.12.x** (or the latest 3.11+)
3. Run the downloaded installer
4. **Critical:** Check the box that says **"Add Python to PATH"** at the bottom of the first screen
5. Click **Install Now**
6. Complete installation
7. Restart Cursor
8. Open terminal and verify: `python --version`

**Checkpoint:** Running `python --version` (Windows) or `python3 --version` (macOS) shows Python 3.11 or higher.

---

### 2.4 Install uv

uv is a fast Python package manager that spec-kit requires.

**Install uv on macOS:**

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

After installation, restart your terminal or run:

```bash
source $HOME/.local/bin/env
```

**Install uv on Windows:**

```powershell
powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"
```

After installation, restart Cursor.

**Verify installation (both platforms):**

```bash
uv --version
```

**Checkpoint:** Running `uv --version` shows a version number (e.g., `uv 0.4.x`).

---

### 2.5 Install spec-kit

spec-kit is GitHub's toolkit for spec-driven development.

**Install spec-kit:**

```bash
uv tool install specify-cli --from git+https://github.com/github/spec-kit.git
```

This command downloads and installs spec-kit globally.

**Verify installation:**

```bash
specify --help
```

You should see a help message with available commands.

**Checkpoint:** Running `specify --help` displays the spec-kit help information.

---

### 2.6 Install Claude Code

Claude Code is the CLI (command-line interface) for Claude that integrates with your development workflow.

**Install Claude Code:**

```bash
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code
```

**If you don't have npm:**

npm comes with Node.js. Install Node.js first:

**macOS:**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://fnm.vercel.app/install | bash
source ~/.bashrc  # or ~/.zshrc
fnm install --lts
```

**Windows:**
1. Go to [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org)
2. Download and install the LTS version
3. Restart Cursor

Then install Claude Code:
```bash
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code
```

**Authenticate Claude Code:**

```bash
claude
```

When you run `claude` for the first time:
1. It will open a browser window
2. Log in with your Claude account (the one with Pro subscription)
3. Authorize Claude Code to access your account
4. Return to the terminal

**Checkpoint:** Running `claude` in the terminal starts an interactive session. Type `/exit` to quit.

---

## 3. Fork and Clone the Tutorial Repository

### 3.1 Fork the Repository

Forking creates your own copy of the tutorial repository on GitHub.

**Steps:**

1. Go to the tutorial repository: `https://github.com/[instructor-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial`
2. Click the **Fork** button in the upper right
3. Select your GitHub account as the destination
4. Wait for the fork to complete
5. You now have your own copy at `https://github.com/[your-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial`

**Checkpoint:** You can see the repository under your GitHub account.

---

### 3.2 Clone Your Fork Locally

Cloning downloads the repository to your computer.

**Steps:**

1. On your forked repository page, click the green **Code** button
2. Make sure **HTTPS** is selected
3. Copy the URL (it looks like `https://github.com/[your-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial.git`)
4. Open Cursor
5. Open the terminal (`` Ctrl+` ``)
6. Navigate to where you want to store projects:

   **macOS:**
   ```bash
   cd ~/Documents
   ```

   **Windows:**
   ```bash
   cd C:\Users\YourName\Documents
   ```

7. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/[your-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial.git
   ```

8. Navigate into the project:
   ```bash
   cd ai-dev-workflow-tutorial
   ```

9. Open the project in Cursor:
   ```bash
   cursor .
   ```

   Or use **File** → **Open Folder** and select the `ai-dev-workflow-tutorial` folder.

**Checkpoint:** You can see the tutorial files in Cursor's file explorer (left sidebar).

---

## 4. Create Jira Project

### 4.1 Create a New Project

**Steps:**

1. Go to your Jira workspace (`yourname.atlassian.net`)
2. Click **Projects** in the left sidebar
3. Click **Create project**
4. Select **Scrum** or **Kanban** (either works for this tutorial)
5. Click **Use template**
6. Configure the project:
   - **Name:** E-Commerce Analytics
   - **Key:** ECOM (this is important — use exactly ECOM)
   - **Access:** Keep default settings
7. Click **Create project**

**Checkpoint:** You can access your ECOM project and see an empty board.

---

## 5. Connect GitHub and Jira

### 5.1 Install GitHub for Jira

This integration connects your GitHub commits and pull requests to Jira issues.

**Steps:**

1. In Jira, click the **gear icon** (⚙️) in the top right for Settings
2. Select **Apps** from the dropdown
3. Click **Find new apps**
4. Search for "GitHub for Jira"
5. Find the official **GitHub for Jira** app by Atlassian
6. Click **Get app** or **Install**
7. Follow the authorization flow:
   - You will be redirected to GitHub
   - Select your GitHub account
   - Select the repositories to connect (choose your forked tutorial repo)
   - Click **Install & Authorize**
8. Return to Jira and verify the app is installed

**Verify the connection:**

1. In Jira, go to **Apps** → **Manage apps**
2. Find GitHub for Jira
3. Click **Get started** or **Configure**
4. You should see your GitHub account and repository listed

**Checkpoint:** The GitHub for Jira app shows your repository as connected.

---

## 6. Session 1 Verification

Before finishing Session 1, verify everything is set up correctly:

### Accounts
- [ ] Can log into github.com
- [ ] Can log into yourname.atlassian.net
- [ ] Have active Claude Pro subscription at claude.ai

### Tools
Run each command in Cursor's terminal and verify output:

```bash
git --version
# Expected: git version 2.x.x

python --version  # or python3 --version
# Expected: Python 3.11.x or higher

uv --version
# Expected: uv 0.x.x

specify --help
# Expected: spec-kit help information

claude --version
# Expected: Claude Code version information
```

### Repository
- [ ] Tutorial repo is forked to your GitHub account
- [ ] Repo is cloned locally and open in Cursor
- [ ] Can see files in Cursor's file explorer

### Jira
- [ ] ECOM project exists in Jira
- [ ] GitHub for Jira app is installed and connected

---

## Common Issues

### "Command not found" after installation

**Cause:** The terminal doesn't know where to find the new program.

**Fix:**
- Close and reopen the terminal (or restart Cursor)
- On macOS, try running `source ~/.zshrc` or `source ~/.bashrc`
- On Windows, restart Cursor completely

### Git asks for username/password on every operation

**Cause:** Git credential helper not configured.

**Fix:**
```bash
git config --global credential.helper store
```

Then run a Git command (like `git pull`), enter credentials once, and they will be saved.

### Python version is still old after installation

**Cause:** System has multiple Python versions.

**Fix on macOS:**
- Use `python3` instead of `python`
- Or create an alias: `alias python=python3`

**Fix on Windows:**
- Ensure "Add Python to PATH" was checked during installation
- Or reinstall Python with that option checked

### Claude Code authentication fails

**Cause:** Browser popup was blocked or session expired.

**Fix:**
1. Run `claude logout`
2. Run `claude` again
3. Ensure browser popup is allowed
4. Complete authentication

### Fork not visible in Cursor

**Cause:** Cloned the original repo instead of your fork.

**Fix:**
1. Check the remote URL: `git remote -v`
2. If it shows the instructor's repo, re-clone from your fork
3. Delete the current folder and clone again from `https://github.com/[your-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial.git`

---

## What's Next

Session 1 is complete. You now have:

- All accounts created and verified
- All tools installed and working
- Tutorial repository forked and cloned
- Jira project ready
- GitHub and Jira connected

In [Session 2](04-session-2-workflow.md), you will:

1. Connect Claude Code to Jira via MCP
2. Use spec-kit to create a specification and plan
3. Create a Jira issue
4. Build a Streamlit dashboard with Claude Code
5. Commit, create a PR, and merge

Take a break if needed, then continue to Session 2 when ready.

Commit message:

Fix consistency issues across tutorial documents
- Update "software development" language to "building with technology"
- Fix navigation link in Git Concepts (was circular, now points to Session 2)
- Update PRD year from 2024 to 2026

docs/01-session-1-setup.md, after:

# Session 1: Setup & Foundation

This session covers account creation, tool installation, and initial configuration. By the end, you will have a complete development environment ready for the workflow in Session 2.

## What You Will Accomplish

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   Session 1 Outcomes                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│  Accounts Created:          Tools Installed:                │
│  ─────────────────          ─────────────────               │
│  • GitHub                   • Cursor                        │
│  • Atlassian (Jira)         • Git                           │
│  • Claude Pro               • Python 3.11+                  │
│                             • uv                            │
│                             • spec-kit                      │
│                                                             │
│  Integrations Configured:   Assets Ready:                   │
│  ───────────────────────    ─────────────                   │
│  • Claude Code in Cursor    • Forked tutorial repo          │
│  • GitHub ↔ Jira            • Jira project (ECOM)           │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 1. Create Accounts

### 1.1 Create a GitHub Account

GitHub is where your code lives. It is the industry standard for version control and collaboration.

**Steps:**

1. Open your browser and go to [github.com](https://github.com)
2. Click **Sign up**
3. Enter your email address
4. Create a password
5. Choose a username (this will be visible publicly, so choose something professional)
6. Complete the verification puzzle
7. Click **Create account**
8. Verify your email by clicking the link GitHub sends you

**Checkpoint:** You should be able to log into github.com and see your dashboard.

---

### 1.2 Create an Atlassian (Jira) Account

Jira is the most widely used project management tool for teams building with technology. It tracks tasks, bugs, and features.

**Steps:**

1. Go to [atlassian.com](https://www.atlassian.com)
2. Click **Get it free** or **Sign up**
3. Enter your email address and click **Sign up**
4. Check your email for a verification link and click it
5. Create a password
6. When asked about your role, select an appropriate option (Student or Developer)
7. When asked what you want to use, select **Jira Software**
8. Name your site (this becomes your workspace URL, e.g., `yourname.atlassian.net`)
9. Complete the onboarding steps

**Checkpoint:** You should be able to access your Jira workspace at `yourname.atlassian.net`.

---

### 1.3 Subscribe to Claude Pro

Claude Pro gives you access to Claude Code, the AI assistant you will use throughout this tutorial.

**Steps:**

1. Go to [claude.ai](https://claude.ai)
2. Click **Sign up** if you don't have an account, or **Log in**
3. Create an account using your email or Google account
4. Once logged in, click on your profile or settings
5. Select **Upgrade to Pro** or **Subscribe to Pro**
6. Enter your payment information ($20/month)
7. Complete the subscription

**Note:** If you encounter usage limits during the tutorial, you can upgrade to Claude Max ($100/month) for higher limits. Most students find Pro sufficient.

**Checkpoint:** When you log into claude.ai, you should see a Pro badge or indicator showing your subscription is active.

---

## 2. Install Software

### 2.1 Install Cursor

Cursor is an AI-powered code editor based on VS Code. It will feel familiar if you have used VS Code before.

**Steps for macOS:**

1. Go to [cursor.com](https://cursor.com)
2. Click **Download for macOS**
3. Open the downloaded `.dmg` file
4. Drag the Cursor icon to your Applications folder
5. Open Cursor from Applications
6. If prompted about opening an app from the internet, click **Open**
7. Complete the initial setup wizard

**Steps for Windows:**

1. Go to [cursor.com](https://cursor.com)
2. Click **Download for Windows**
3. Run the downloaded `.exe` installer
4. Follow the installation wizard (accept defaults)
5. Launch Cursor when installation completes
6. Complete the initial setup wizard

**Checkpoint:** You should be able to open Cursor and see the welcome screen or an empty editor.

---

### 2.2 Install Git

Git is the version control system that tracks changes to your code.

**Check if Git is already installed:**

Open Cursor's terminal (press `` Ctrl+` ``) and type:

```bash
git --version
```

If you see a version number (e.g., `git version 2.39.0`), Git is installed. Skip to the next section.

**Install Git on macOS:**

1. Open Cursor's terminal (`` Ctrl+` ``)
2. Type `git --version`
3. If Git is not installed, macOS will prompt you to install Command Line Tools
4. Click **Install** on the prompt
5. Wait for installation to complete
6. Verify by running `git --version` again

**Alternative for macOS (if the above doesn't work):**

1. Go to [git-scm.com/download/mac](https://git-scm.com/download/mac)
2. Download the installer
3. Run the installer and follow the prompts

**Install Git on Windows:**

1. Go to [git-scm.com/download/win](https://git-scm.com/download/win)
2. Download the installer (64-bit recommended)
3. Run the installer
4. **Important settings during installation:**
   - Select "Use Git from Git Bash and also from 3rd-party software"
   - Select "Use the OpenSSL library"
   - Select "Checkout Windows-style, commit Unix-style line endings"
   - Accept other defaults
5. Complete installation
6. Restart Cursor
7. Open terminal and verify: `git --version`

**Configure Git (both platforms):**

After installing, configure your identity:

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
```

Use the same email you used for GitHub.

**Checkpoint:** Running `git --version` in Cursor's terminal shows a version number, and `git config --list` shows your name and email.

---

### 2.3 Install Python 3.11+

Python is required for spec-kit and the Streamlit dashboard you will build.

**Check your current Python version:**

```bash
python --version
```

or

```bash
python3 --version
```

If you see Python 3.11 or higher (e.g., `Python 3.11.5`), skip to the next section.

**Install Python on macOS:**

1. Go to [python.org/downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
2. Click **Download Python 3.12.x** (or the latest 3.11+)
3. Open the downloaded `.pkg` file
4. Follow the installation wizard
5. **Important:** On the final screen, click **Install Certificates** if that option appears
6. Close and reopen Cursor's terminal
7. Verify: `python3 --version`

**Install Python on Windows:**

1. Go to [python.org/downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
2. Click **Download Python 3.12.x** (or the latest 3.11+)
3. Run the downloaded installer
4. **Critical:** Check the box that says **"Add Python to PATH"** at the bottom of the first screen
5. Click **Install Now**
6. Complete installation
7. Restart Cursor
8. Open terminal and verify: `python --version`

**Checkpoint:** Running `python --version` (Windows) or `python3 --version` (macOS) shows Python 3.11 or higher.

---

### 2.4 Install uv

uv is a fast Python package manager that spec-kit requires.

**Install uv on macOS:**

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

After installation, restart your terminal or run:

```bash
source $HOME/.local/bin/env
```

**Install uv on Windows:**

```powershell
powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"
```

After installation, restart Cursor.

**Verify installation (both platforms):**

```bash
uv --version
```

**Checkpoint:** Running `uv --version` shows a version number (e.g., `uv 0.4.x`).

---

### 2.5 Install spec-kit

spec-kit is GitHub's toolkit for spec-driven development.

**Install spec-kit:**

```bash
uv tool install specify-cli --from git+https://github.com/github/spec-kit.git
```

This command downloads and installs spec-kit globally.

**Verify installation:**

```bash
specify --help
```

You should see a help message with available commands.

**Checkpoint:** Running `specify --help` displays the spec-kit help information.

---

### 2.6 Install Claude Code

Claude Code is the CLI (command-line interface) for Claude that integrates with your development workflow.

**Install Claude Code:**

```bash
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code
```

**If you don't have npm:**

npm comes with Node.js. Install Node.js first:

**macOS:**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://fnm.vercel.app/install | bash
source ~/.bashrc  # or ~/.zshrc
fnm install --lts
```

**Windows:**
1. Go to [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org)
2. Download and install the LTS version
3. Restart Cursor

Then install Claude Code:
```bash
npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code
```

**Authenticate Claude Code:**

```bash
claude
```

When you run `claude` for the first time:
1. It will open a browser window
2. Log in with your Claude account (the one with Pro subscription)
3. Authorize Claude Code to access your account
4. Return to the terminal

**Checkpoint:** Running `claude` in the terminal starts an interactive session. Type `/exit` to quit.

---

## 3. Fork and Clone the Tutorial Repository

### 3.1 Fork the Repository

Forking creates your own copy of the tutorial repository on GitHub.

**Steps:**

1. Go to the tutorial repository: `https://github.com/[instructor-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial`
2. Click the **Fork** button in the upper right
3. Select your GitHub account as the destination
4. Wait for the fork to complete
5. You now have your own copy at `https://github.com/[your-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial`

**Checkpoint:** You can see the repository under your GitHub account.

---

### 3.2 Clone Your Fork Locally

Cloning downloads the repository to your computer.

**Steps:**

1. On your forked repository page, click the green **Code** button
2. Make sure **HTTPS** is selected
3. Copy the URL (it looks like `https://github.com/[your-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial.git`)
4. Open Cursor
5. Open the terminal (`` Ctrl+` ``)
6. Navigate to where you want to store projects:

   **macOS:**
   ```bash
   cd ~/Documents
   ```

   **Windows:**
   ```bash
   cd C:\Users\YourName\Documents
   ```

7. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/[your-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial.git
   ```

8. Navigate into the project:
   ```bash
   cd ai-dev-workflow-tutorial
   ```

9. Open the project in Cursor:
   ```bash
   cursor .
   ```

   Or use **File** → **Open Folder** and select the `ai-dev-workflow-tutorial` folder.

**Checkpoint:** You can see the tutorial files in Cursor's file explorer (left sidebar).

---

## 4. Create Jira Project

### 4.1 Create a New Project

**Steps:**

1. Go to your Jira workspace (`yourname.atlassian.net`)
2. Click **Projects** in the left sidebar
3. Click **Create project**
4. Select **Scrum** or **Kanban** (either works for this tutorial)
5. Click **Use template**
6. Configure the project:
   - **Name:** E-Commerce Analytics
   - **Key:** ECOM (this is important — use exactly ECOM)
   - **Access:** Keep default settings
7. Click **Create project**

**Checkpoint:** You can access your ECOM project and see an empty board.

---

## 5. Connect GitHub and Jira

### 5.1 Install GitHub for Jira

This integration connects your GitHub commits and pull requests to Jira issues.

**Steps:**

1. In Jira, click the **gear icon** (⚙️) in the top right for Settings
2. Select **Apps** from the dropdown
3. Click **Find new apps**
4. Search for "GitHub for Jira"
5. Find the official **GitHub for Jira** app by Atlassian
6. Click **Get app** or **Install**
7. Follow the authorization flow:
   - You will be redirected to GitHub
   - Select your GitHub account
   - Select the repositories to connect (choose your forked tutorial repo)
   - Click **Install & Authorize**
8. Return to Jira and verify the app is installed

**Verify the connection:**

1. In Jira, go to **Apps** → **Manage apps**
2. Find GitHub for Jira
3. Click **Get started** or **Configure**
4. You should see your GitHub account and repository listed

**Checkpoint:** The GitHub for Jira app shows your repository as connected.

---

## 6. Session 1 Verification

Before finishing Session 1, verify everything is set up correctly:

### Accounts
- [ ] Can log into github.com
- [ ] Can log into yourname.atlassian.net
- [ ] Have active Claude Pro subscription at claude.ai

### Tools
Run each command in Cursor's terminal and verify output:

```bash
git --version
# Expected: git version 2.x.x

python --version  # or python3 --version
# Expected: Python 3.11.x or higher

uv --version
# Expected: uv 0.x.x

specify --help
# Expected: spec-kit help information

claude --version
# Expected: Claude Code version information
```

### Repository
- [ ] Tutorial repo is forked to your GitHub account
- [ ] Repo is cloned locally and open in Cursor
- [ ] Can see files in Cursor's file explorer

### Jira
- [ ] ECOM project exists in Jira
- [ ] GitHub for Jira app is installed and connected

---

## Common Issues

### "Command not found" after installation

**Cause:** The terminal doesn't know where to find the new program.

**Fix:**
- Close and reopen the terminal (or restart Cursor)
- On macOS, try running `source ~/.zshrc` or `source ~/.bashrc`
- On Windows, restart Cursor completely

### Git asks for username/password on every operation

**Cause:** Git credential helper not configured.

**Fix:**
```bash
git config --global credential.helper store
```

Then run a Git command (like `git pull`), enter credentials once, and they will be saved.

### Python version is still old after installation

**Cause:** System has multiple Python versions.

**Fix on macOS:**
- Use `python3` instead of `python`
- Or create an alias: `alias python=python3`

**Fix on Windows:**
- Ensure "Add Python to PATH" was checked during installation
- Or reinstall Python with that option checked

### Claude Code authentication fails

**Cause:** Browser popup was blocked or session expired.

**Fix:**
1. Run `claude logout`
2. Run `claude` again
3. Ensure browser popup is allowed
4. Complete authentication

### Fork not visible in Cursor

**Cause:** Cloned the original repo instead of your fork.

**Fix:**
1. Check the remote URL: `git remote -v`
2. If it shows the instructor's repo, re-clone from your fork
3. Delete the current folder and clone again from `https://github.com/[your-username]/ai-dev-workflow-tutorial.git`

---

## What's Next

Session 1 is complete. You now have:

- All accounts created and verified
- All tools installed and working
- Tutorial repository forked and cloned
- Jira project ready
- GitHub and Jira connected

In [Session 2](04-session-2-workflow.md), you will:

1. Connect Claude Code to Jira via MCP
2. Use spec-kit to create a specification and plan
3. Create a Jira issue
4. Build a Streamlit dashboard with Claude Code
5. Commit, create a PR, and merge

Take a break if needed, then continue to Session 2 when ready.
